.\"/=========================================================================
.\"  gossimon - Gossip based resource usage monitoring for Linux clusters
.\"  Copyright 2003-2010 Amnon Barak
.\"
.\"  Distributed under the OSI-approved BSD License (the "License");
.\"  see accompanying file Copyright.txt for details.
.\"
.\"  This software is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
.\"  implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"  See the License for more information.
.\"==========================================================================

.TH infod-best "1" "21 October 2010" "GOSSIMON" "GOSSIMON"
.SH NAME
.B infod-best
selects the best nodes to run on
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B infod-best [-h host] [-m{MB}] [-p procs] [-v] [-d load-diff] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B infod-best
selects the bests nodes to use according to the current state of infod's
information vector. 
.B infod-best also knows to select multiple nodes in case a parallel program
(such as MPI) wishes to run.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  -h, --server <host>
Uses the given host as the information provider
.TP
.B -m{M}
Select nodes that has at least M megabytes of free memory
.TP
.B -p{n} 
Select n locations for running an n process parallel job
.TP
.B --machine host1,host2,...
Select only nodes within the given list
.TP
.B --machine-file file-name
Select only nodes listed in the given file (one node per line).
.TP
.B -d <load-diff>
When choosing the best nodes, select a random node from all the nodes
that has a load of at most load-diff units more than the lowest load
node. This way the least loaded nodes will not be selected each time.
The default is 5 load units where 100 load units represent a full CPU
process on a standard computer.
.TP 
.B -v
Print verbose information while running
.TP
.B --debug
Prints debug information while running
.TP
.B --help
Prints a short help screen

.SH RESULTS
On success,
.Pa infod-best
prints a space-separated list of the selected nodes.
On failure, infod-best returns a non-zero exit-code.

.SH AUTHOR
Amar Lior

.SH SEE ALSO
.B mmon(1), infod-ctl(1), infod-client(1), infod(8)

.SH HISTORY
.B infod-best
is part of the GOSSIMON package.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report infod bugs to gossimon-users@lists.sourceforge.net

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (c) 2010, Amnon Barak All rights reserved.

.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

.PP 
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

.PP 
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

.PP
Neither the name of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT 
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
