.\"/=========================================================================
.\"  gossimon - Gossip based resource usage monitoring for Linux clusters
.\"  Copyright 2003-2010 Amnon Barak
.\"
.\"  Distributed under the OSI-approved BSD License (the "License");
.\"  see accompanying file Copyright.txt for details.
.\"
.\"  This software is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
.\"  implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"  See the License for more information.
.\"==========================================================================

.TH infod-client "1" "21 October 2010" "GOSSIMON" "GOSSIMON"
.SH NAME
.B infod-client
is a client application that connect to the
.Pa infod
daemon to retrieve information about the cluster nodes.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B infod-client [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B infod-client
connects to the infod daemon running on the given host (default is localhost)
to retrieve the information vector of that host. Once the cluster information
vector is retireved it is parsed depending upon the selected query and 
the query result is printed as text.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  -h, --server <host>
Uses the given host as the information provider
.TP
.B      --info item1,item2,...,itemN
Select specific information item from the vector to be displayed.
This is relevant to the default (all) query.
.TP
.B  -i, --interactive
Runs the client in interactive mode, see below for commands.
.TP
.B -q, --query <operation>
Selects a query to perform on the information vector. See list of queries below.
.TP 
.B -p, --port <port>
Uses the given port to connect to the infod
.TP
.B -t, --timeout <SEC>
Wait for
.B SEC
seconds before aborting the connection.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose 
Output verbose messages.
.TP
.B --help
Prints a short help message.

.SH Queries
.TP
.B all         
Get the data about all the nodes (DEFAULT)

.TP
.B stats
Get the cluster statistics

.TP
.B desc
Get the description of the information

.TP
.B dead-list
Get list of dead nodes

.TP
.B live-list   
Get comma separated list of live nodes

.TP
.B all-list    
Get comma separated list of all cluster nodes

.TP
.B window      
Get the node information window

.TP
.B age-histo   
Get age histogram of information

.TP
.B age-cdf     
Get age CDF of information

.SH INTERACTIVE
In interactive mode infod-client doesn't close the connection after returning
the results. Interactive mode supports the following commands
.TP
.B get <host>
Retrieves the information from a given host name and prints it
.TP
.B exit
Exits infod-client

.SH RESULTS
On success,
.B infod-client
prints the output of the selected operation and exit with 0. 
On error, 
.Pa infod-client
returns a non-zero exit code.

.SH EXAMPLES

.RS
infod-client -h cmos-20 
.RE

The above command connects to "cmos-20" and prints an XML string
containing all the information about the cluster cmos-20 belongs to.

.RS
infod-client -h mos1 -o stats
.RE

The above command will connect mos1 and will print status information 
about the cluster mos1 is part of.

.RS
infod-client -h mos1 -i load,ncpus
.RE

The above command will connect mos1 and print status information about the
cluster nodes. Only the load and ncpus items will displayed.

.SH AUTHOR
Amar Lior and Ilan Peer

.SH SEE ALSO
.B  infod(8), infod-ctl(1), infod-best(1), mmon(1),

.SH HISTORY
.B infod-client
is part of the GOSSIMON package

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report infod-client bugs to gossimon-users@lists.sourceforge.net

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (c) 2010, Amnon Barak All rights reserved.

.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

.PP 
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

.PP 
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

.PP
Neither the name of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT 
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
