.\"/=========================================================================
.\"  gossimon - Gossip based resource usage monitoring for Linux clusters
.\"  Copyright 2003-2010 Amnon Barak
.\"
.\"  Distributed under the OSI-approved BSD License (the "License");
.\"  see accompanying file Copyright.txt for details.
.\"
.\"  This software is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
.\"  implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"  See the License for more information.
.\"==========================================================================

.TH MMON 1 "21 October 2010" "Version 2" "GOSSIMON"

.SH NAME
mmon - a cluster monitor for the gossimon system.


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mmon
[\-v] [\-V] [\-w|\-W] [\-t|\-T] [\-d] [\-m] [\-s] [\-l] [\-u] 
[\-h <\fIhost\fP>] [\-c <\fIhost list\fP>] [\-f <\fIfilename\fP>]
[\-o <\fIstream|filename\fP>] [\-\-defaults|\-\-conf <\fIfilename\fP>] 
[\-\-nodes nodeX..Y]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIMMON\fP is a cluster monitor, used for viewing various real time data obtained
by the infod daemon.
\fIMMON\fP periodically connects to the infod daemon and retrieve information about cluster nodes.
This information is displayed as a series of bars, by default 1 bar per node is displayed,
but using the advanced mode it is possible to display several bars per node.
.PP
MMON uses a mutable color scheme, which may be loaded from a given file
(must be of specific format). If no scheme specified - MMON will attempt
to use \fI.mmon.conf\fP in \fI/etc/gossimon\fP.
If no such file exists - the default settings will be applied. 
.PP
For a detailed assistance on usage, mmon has a detailed help page,
activated by pressing 'h' while running.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B  -V
Display in "super-vertical" mode - one space per node.

.TP 8
.B -v
Display in vertical mode - two spaces per node.

.TP 8
.B -w,-W
Display in wide mode - every node number fits horizontally.

.TP 8 
.B -t, -T
Show bottom status bar, displaying various information (default).

.TP 8
.B -d
Show dead nodes as well as live (indicating type of death).

.TP 8
.B -m
Set initial display type to memory.

.TP 8
.B -s
Set initial display type to speed.

.TP 8
.B -l
Set initial display type to load.

.TP 8
.B -u
Set initial display type to Utilizability.

.TP 8
.B -h <\fIhost\fP>
Set given host to be the source of displayed information.

.TP 8
.B -c <\fIhost list\fP>
Use multiple sources of information, given in a list format.
For example: -c host1,cluster3,node8
Each destination will be displayed separately.
Selection using the Up/Down arrow keys. 

.TP 8
.B -f <\fIfilename\fP>
Use multiple sources of information, given in a specified file.
Each destination will be displayed seperatly.
Selection using the Up/Down arrow keys.

.TP 8
.B -o <\fIstream|filename\fP>
Output important (and unimportant) debugging information.

.TP 8
.B --defaults
Use default color scheme:
If The default configuration file exists - MMON will use it.
Otherwise - The MMON will use the default Black&White setting.

.TP 8
.B --conf <\fIfilename\fP>
Use customized color scheme defined in specified file.

.TP 8
.B --nodes <\fInodeX..Y\fP>
Only display nodes from nodeX until nodeY (e.g. c1..20,c30..40)

.TP 8
.B --win <\faWINDOW-DEFINITION\fP>
This option instructs MMON to create a display according to the WINDOW-DEFINITION provided.
See the WINDOW-DEFINITION section for more details.


.SH WINDOW-DEFINITION
Window definition is provided by several directives separated by spaces.


.IP host=host-name
Use the provided host-name for retrieving information.

.IP disp=item1,item2,...,itemN
Create a legend with the following items. For example disp=load,space,mem

.IP mode=prop1,prop2...
Set the display mode according to the given properties.
Available properties include:
.RS
.TP
.B d
to display dead nodes

.TP
.B v
to use vertical mode
.B w 
to use wide (horizontal names) mode
.TP
.B sv
to use super vertical (no spaces) mode

.RE

.IP nodes=nodeX..Y
Limit the display to the provided nodes in the given range. The range is explained using the
following example :g1..50. The g1 define the first node; The .. part indicate it is a numeric range; and 50
indicate the number of the last nodes. So the range is equal to g1,g2,...,g49,g50.
Several ranges can be provided using comma separation (e.g. g1..25,g33..44)


.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B mmon --win "mode=d host=g22" --win "mode=sv host=g55"

Open 2 displays, the first showing dead nodes and using g22 as the information source,
the second in super vertical mode using g55 as the information source.

.TP
.B mmon --win "node=g1..25" --win "node=g33..35 host=g1"

Open 2 displays, the first showing nodes g1..25 and the second showing nodes g33..35.

.RE

.SH AUTHORS
Alexander Margolin, Amnon Shiloh, Amar Lior, Ilan Peer, and Mordechai Guri

.SH HISTORY
MMON was developped originally by Amnon Shiloh for the MOSIX(TM) system. It was modified to 
obtain data from the infod system by Ilan Peer and Lior Amar. Later on it was heavily modified by
Alexander Margolin to support modular displays. Color support was added by Mordechai Guri.
.TP
Since 2010 mmon is developed maintained by Lior Amar as part of the gossimon open source project.


.SH SEE ALSO
.B  infod(8), infod-client(1), infod-best(1), testload(1)


.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report infod bugs to gossimon-users@lists.sourceforge.net

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (c) 2010, Amnon Barak All rights reserved.

.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

.PP 
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

.PP 
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

.PP
Neither the name of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT 
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

