.\"/=========================================================================
.\"  gossimon - Gossip based resource usage monitoring for Linux clusters
.\"  Copyright 2003-2010 Amnon Barak
.\"
.\"  Distributed under the OSI-approved BSD License (the "License");
.\"  see accompanying file Copyright.txt for details.
.\"
.\"  This software is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
.\"  implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"  See the License for more information.
.\"==========================================================================

.TH repeat-bg "1" "21 October" "GOSSIMON" "GOSSIMON"
.SH NAME 
repeat-bg \- run programs in background
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B repeat-bg NUM program
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B repeat-bg
is a small script that run NUM instances of 
.B program
in the background. 
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Lior Amar
.SH SEE ALSO

.SH HISTORY
.B repeat-bg
is part of the GOSSIMON package

.SH SEE ALSO
.B mmon(1), infod-ctl(1), infod-client(1), infod(8), infod-best(1), testload(1)


.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report infod bugs to gossimon-users@lists.sourceforge.net

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (c) 2010, Amnon Barak All rights reserved.

.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

.PP 
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

.PP 
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

.PP
Neither the name of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT 
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
