.\"/=========================================================================
.\"  gossimon - Gossip based resource usage monitoring for Linux clusters
.\"  Copyright 2003-2010 Amnon Barak
.\"
.\"  Distributed under the OSI-approved BSD License (the "License");
.\"  see accompanying file Copyright.txt for details.
.\"
.\"  This software is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
.\"  implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"  See the License for more information.
.\"==========================================================================

.TH testload "1" " 21 October 2010" "GOSSIMON" "GOSSIMON"
.SH NAME 
testload \- artificial load generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B testload [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B testload
is a test program that generates artificial load and consumes memory for testing a Linux system.
 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B  -t, --time SEC
Limit the running time to 
.B SEC 
seconds. Without this option
.B testload
will run for 1800 seconds (30 minutes). If 
.B 0 
is given then the run time will be infinite.
.B testload 
will receive an alarm after SEC seconds.
.TP
.B -l, --tlow SEC
low limit for choosing the running time. This option is used together with the
--thigh option to set the time range for 
.B testload 
.TP
.B -h, --thigh SEC
high limit for choosing the running time. This option is used together with the
--tlow option to set the time range for 
.B testload 
.TP
.B -m, --mem MB
amount of memory to consume (in Megabytes).
Without this option
.Pa testload 
will not consume a non significant amount of memory.
.TP
.B --random-mem
Fill memory with a random pattern. When not use, memory is filled with
the same byte-value.
.TP
.B --cpu UNITS
number of times to iterate over an inner loop from 0 to 1,000,000.
.TP 
.B -f, --file=FILENAME 
the file to use when performing I/O
.TP
.B --read[=SIZE]
perform read system calls in size of SIZE kilobytes, if SIZE is not supplied the 
default read size is 4Kb
.B --write[=SIZE]
perform write system calls in size of SIZE kilobytes, if SIZE is not supplied the
default write size is 4Kb
.TP
.B --noiosyscall=NUM
perform non-io system call like time NUM times.
.TP
.B --iosize=SIZE 
total amount of data to read/write in megabytes.
.TP
.B --maxiosize=SIZE
the maximum size accessible in the file given in megabytes. If the offset of the
file go beyond this size the file pointer is rewind to the beginning.
.TP
.B --iotimes=NUM
if this option is given the file is accessed NUM time, and at each time the number of 
chunks accessed is given by the --iochunk option.
.TP
.B --iochunk=NUM
the number of chunks to read at each I/O access (see the --iotimes option)

.TP
.B --chkpt-demo
run a simple loop that prints the index value at each iteration.
.TP
.B --self-chkpt INDEX
perform self checkpoint when the value of the loop index is equal to INDEX.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
run in verbose mode, producing debug-output.
.TP
.B -r, --report
report runtime statistics at end of run.
.TP
.B --uid UID 
set user identity to UID. This option is available only for root.
.TP
.B --sleep SEC
sleep for 
.B SEC
seconds before starting
.TP
.B --help
Show a short help screen.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B testload -t 20
runs testload for 20 seconds
.TP 
.B testload -l 10 -h 20
runs testload for a random period of time between 10 and 20 seconds. 
.TP
.B testload -f /tmp/big --write 32 --iosize 20
writes 20 megabytes to the file /tmp/big where each write system call is of size 32 Kb.
.TP 
.B testload -f /tmp/big --write 32 --iosize 20 --maxiosize 10
same as the above example, except that the maximal file size is 10 megabytes. 
In this case after reaching 10 megabytes the file offset will be rewind to the beginning of the 
file.

.SH AUTHOR  
Written by Lior Amar

.SH SEE ALSO
.B mmon(1), infod-ctl(1), infod-client(1), infod(8), infod-best(1)

.SH HISTORY
.B testload
is part of the GOSSIMON package


.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report infod bugs to gossimon-users@lists.sourceforge.net

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (c) 2010, Amnon Barak All rights reserved.

.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

.PP 
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

.PP 
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

.PP
Neither the name of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT 
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
