.\"/=========================================================================
.\"  gossimon - Gossip based resource usage monitoring for Linux clusters
.\"  Copyright 2003-2010 Amnon Barak
.\"
.\"  Distributed under the OSI-approved BSD License (the "License");
.\"  see accompanying file Copyright.txt for details.
.\"
.\"  This software is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the
.\"  implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"  See the License for more information.
.\"==========================================================================

.TH infod-ctl "1" "21 October 2010" "GOSSIMON" "GOSSIMON"
.SH NAME
.B infod-ctl
- controlling infod online behaviour
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B infod-ctl <command>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B infod-ctl
connects to the infod daemon running on the localhost and can setup its 
parameters and perform queries about its status. 
Only root can connect to the infod using
.B infod-ctl.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B  status 
Show infod status information.
.TP
.B debug 
Set the infod debug level.
.TP 
.B gossip <number>
Set the gossip algorithm used by infod to algorithm represented by the number
supplied.
.TP
.B fixwin <size>
Tells infod to use a fixed window size of size <size>
.TP 
.B uptoage <age>
Tells infod to include in the window only entries which are up to age <age> 
old. <age> is in milliseconds units.

.TP
.B avgage <sample num>
Start average age measurement of <sample num> samples. Once the measurement
starts, the 
.B status
command will display the results of the measurement. 


.TP
.B no-avgage
Stop the average age measurement.

.TP
.B infomsgs
Starts measuring the number of info messages sent and received by infod.

.TP
.B no-infomsgs
Stop info messages measurements.

.TP
.B sendtime <sample num>
Start measuring the average send time.

.TP
.B no-sendtime
Stop measuring the average send time.

.TP
.B dlc
Clear the death log.

.TP
.B dlp
Print the death log.

.SH RESULTS
On success,
.B infod-ctl
prints the output of the selected operation.
On error, 
.B infod-ctl 
returns a non-zero exit code.

.SH EXAMPLE

.RS
infod-ctl status
.RE

The above command will connect to the local infod and will print some 
status information about it.

.SH AUTHOR
Amar Lior 

.SH SEE ALSO
.B infod(1), mmon(1), infod-client(1), infod-best(1)

.SH HISTORY
.B infod-ctl
is part of the GOSSIMON package

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report infod bugs to gossimon-users@lists.sourceforge.net

.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (c) 2010, Amnon Barak All rights reserved.

.PP
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

.PP 
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

.PP 
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

.PP
Neither the name of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

.PP
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) 
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT 
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT 
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
